---
description: Where is Black Creek?
dateModified: '2016-07-09T16:15:41.862Z'
datePublished: '2016-07-09T16:30:09.718Z'
title: FAQ
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-07-09-faq.md
starred: false
inFeed: true
hasPage: false
inNav: false
_type: MediaObject

---
# FAQ

**Where is Black Creek?**

Black Creek is a community on the eastern side of [Vancouver Island][0], [British Columbia][1].

**What is a Toller?**

The _Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever_, or _Toller_ for short, is a medium sized breed of gundog originating in Yarmouth County, located in southwestern Nova Scotia, Canada. It is the smallest of the retrievers.

Color is any shade of red, ranging from a golden red through dark coppery red, with lighter featherings on the underside of the tail, pantaloons, and body. Even the lighter shades of golden red are deeply pigmented and rich in color.

Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retrievers are known to be _very intelligent, alert, high energy dogs._ They tend to be very affectionate outgoing animals with family members and are known for being very patient with children. Some dogs may be reserved in new situations but they are not shy.

Duck Tollers are working animals and are happiest when they have a job to do. They have a strong retrieving drive, intense birdiness, endurance and a love for water.

Tollers shed! They have a lovely undercoat that is integral to the water work they love to do.

Tollers don't smell doggy! Okay if they are in stinky water they will. But unlike a number of other retriever breeds these dogs can get wet and dry off without that wetdogstinkysmell.

**How Active is a Toller?**

The breed is often mistaken for small Golden Retrievers, but the Toller is more active, both physically and mentally. According to the breed standards, the Toller should be athletic, well-muscled, compact, medium boned, balanced and powerful.

**How big is a Toller?**

Tollers are the smallest of all the retriever breeds. They range in height from _17--19 inches _at the withers for females approx 40 lbs, and _19-21 inches _for males, approx. 50 lbs.

**What is our breeding program?**

I only keep two dogs as pets at a time, at this point only one of those is used for breeding. I like to think of myself as a "small scale" operation and never give the impression that this is even a borderline puppy mill. I do enter into co-ownership agreements with forever homes. This means I can use them for breeding when their health clearances are validated, but the dogs live elsewhere with approved families. I only breed once every 12-16 months, depending on the female's heat cycle, and will only breed a female 3-4 times, retiring her by age 8\.

**Are the pups sold with a non-breeding Agreement?**

All puppies are sold with a non-breeding agreement unless I enter into a co-ownership with the buyer. This means that I must receive a certificate of spay/neuter by the time the pup is two years old.

**Are Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retrievers from Newfoundland?**

Just had to include this silly question....no it is not frequently asked, but it was once and that was enough!

[0]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vancouver_Island "Vancouver Island"
[1]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_Columbia "British Columbia"